The first time you train a learning algorithm,
you can almost guarantee that it
won't work not the first time out.
So I think of the heart of
the machine learning development
process as error analysis,
which if you do it well,
I can tell you what's the most
efficient use of your time
in terms of what you should do to improve
your learning algorithm's performance.
Let's start with an example.
Let me walk through an error analysis
example using speech recognition.
When I'm carrying out error analysis,
this is pretty much what I would do myself
in a spreadsheet to get a handle on
whether the errors of the speech system.
You might listen to maybe 100
mislabeled examples from your
dev set from the development set.
So let's say the first example
was labeled with the ground truth
label stir fried lettuce recipe.
But you're learning arms prediction
was stir fry letters recipe.
If you have a couple of hypothesis,
but what are the major types
of data in your dataset?
Maybe you think some of the data has car
noise, some of the data has people noise.
Then you can build a spreadsheet and
I literally do this in a spreadsheet
with a couple of columns like this.
And when you listen to this example,
if this example has car noise in
the background,
you can then make a check mark or
other annotation in your spreadsheet to
indicate that this example had car noise.
Then you listen to the second example,
maybe sweeten coffee caught
mis-transcribed as Swedish coffee and
maybe this example had people
noise in the background.
And maybe one example with sail away song
was mis transcribed sell away song and
this again had people noise and
let's catch up with trans drivers.
Let's catch up.
And maybe this example had both
car noise and people noise.
Note that these tags up on top don't
have to be mutually exclusive.
During this process of error analysis,
as you listen to audio clips,
you may come up with ideas for
additional tags.
Let's say this for for example,
had a very low bandwidth connection and
reflecting on the areas
you're spotting you remember.
Maybe quite a few of the audio clips
have a low bandwidth connection,
at this point you may decide to add a new
column to your spreadsheet with one more
tag that says low bandwidth.
And check that and maybe go back to
see if some of the other examples
also had a low bandwidth connection.
So even though I went through this example
using a slide when I'm doing
error analysis myself,
sometimes I literally fire up
a spreadsheet program like Google sheet or
Excel or on a Mac, the numbers program and
do it like this in the spreadsheet.
This process hopes you understand
whether the categories
as denoted by tags that may be
the source of more of the errors and
does may be worthy of further effort and
attention.
Until now, error analysis has typically
been done via a manual process, say,
in the Jupiter notebook or
tracking errors in spreadsheet.
I still sometimes do it that way and
if that's how you're doing it too,
that's fine.
But there are also emerging MLOps
tools that making this process easier for
developers.
For example, when my team landing AI works
on computer vision applications, the whole
team now uses landing lens, which makes
this much easier than the spreadsheet.
You've heard me say that training
a model is initiative process,
deploying a model is an intuitive process.
Maybe it should come as no surprise
that error analysis is also an iterative
process where what a typical process would
be is you might examine and tag some
set of examples with an initial set of
tags such as car noise and people noise.
And based on examining this
initial set of examples,
you may come back and
say you want to propose some new tags.
with the new tags, you can then go back
to examine and tag even more examples.
Let me step through a few other
examples of what such tags could be.
Take visual inspection.
You know, the problem of
finding defects in smart phones.
Some of the tags could be
specific class labels,
such as this is going to have a scratch or
does evident and so on.
So it's fine if some of these tags
are associated with specific class labels
y or
some of the tax could be image properties.
Is this picture of the phone blurry?
Is it against the dark background or
a light background?
Is there a unwanted
reflection in this picture?
The tags could also come from
other forms of metadata.
What is the film model?
What is the factory which is
the manufacturing line that captured
the specific image?
And the goal of this type of process
where you come over tag label.
More data come over tag, is to try to
come up with a few categories where you
could productively improve the algorithm
such as in our earlier speech
example deciding to work on speech
with car noise in the background.
Let me step through just one more example,
product recommendations for
an online e commerce site.
You might look at what products
a system is recommending to users and
find the clearly incorrect or
irrelevant recommendations.
And try to figure out if there
are specific user demographics such
as are we really badly recommending
products to younger women or
to older men or to something else?
Or are there specific product features or
specific product categories where
the recommendations are particularly poor.
And by alternatively brainstorming and
applying such tags,
you can hopefully come
up with a few ideas for
categories of data that we're trying
to improve your albums performance on.
As you go through these different tags
here are some useful numbers to look at.
First what fraction of
errors have that tag?
For example,
if you listen to 100 audio clips and
find that 12% of them were
labeled with the car noise type,
then that gives you a sense of how
important is it to work on car noise.
It tells you also that even if you
fix all of the car noise issues,
the performance may improve only by 12%,
which is actually not bad.
Or you can ask all the data with that
tag what fraction is misclassified?
So far we've only talked about tagging the
mislabeled examples for time efficiency.
You might focus your attention
on tagging the mislabeled,
the misclassified examples.
But if this tag you can apply
to both correctly labeled and
two mislabeled examples, then you can
ask of all the data of that tag,
what fraction is misclassified?
So for example,
if you find that of all the data with
car noise, 18% of it is mistrust right.
Then that tells you that
the performance on data with this
type of tag has only a certain
level of accuracy and
tells you how hard these examples
with car noise really are.
You might also ask what fraction
of all the data has that tag.
This tells you how important relative to
your entire data set are examples with
that tag.
So what fraction of your
entire data set has car noise?
And then lastly, how much room for
improvement is there
on data with that tag?
And one example that you've already
seen for how to do this analysis
is to measure human level
performance on data with that tag.
So by brainstorming different tags,
you can segment your data
into different categories and
then use questions like these to try to
decide what to prioritize working on.
Let's dive more deeply into an example
of doing this in the next video.